# A 3D finite volume approach for time-domain electromagnetic simulations with thin, highly conductive structures

_Devin C. Cowan, Lindsey J. Heagy, and Douglas W. Oldenburg_

Inductive source time-domain electromagnetic (TDEM) methods are frequently used to image ore-bearing mineralization that can present as thin and highly conductive. The need to properly characterize inductive responses from thin, highly conductive targets in geologically complex settings has promoted significant interest in developing improved numerical algorithms. Here, we present a 3D hierarchical finite volume (FV) formulation that accurately simulates the physics of thin conductors without undo computational cost. The formulation parameterizes the electrical properties of plate-like structures as conductances that live on mesh faces. We build the formulation using the SimPEG framework. We show the hierarchical FV approach better preserves the physics of the forward simulation compared to plate-modeling software while using a fraction of the computational resources required for standard 3D voxel approaches. We demonstrate the hierarchical FV approach to be numerically stable for plate conductances exceeding 1e4 S. We then demonstrate the simulation of borehole TDEM data where the geometry of the host and a conductive target are non-trivial, and the electrical properties of the target are inhomogeneous. The impact of the hierarchical FV formulation is the ability to perform hypothesis testing for geologically realistic hypotheses when thin conductive targets are present.
